


When you start studying IT first things you learn is that internet is the way its today due to personalisation of computes. The possibility of common hub for computers to share has been an possibility ever since 1950’s. Though it had many prototypes, and other data communication types such as radio and telegraph was its precursors, internet has became a hub of connection.
The internet was found at 80’s, in an American UCLA, which had the pioneers such as Robert Kahn and Vint Cref. Though the power of net work hub such as internet was realised back in 80’s and was funded by militaristic purpose, the true power of cloud hub was meant to be reached by making it global. So thus the internet was born to day the internet is used for IT in away that has changed economies of global. From net working, stores and  computing internet provides comfort to lives in 21st century that was never been so before.

To elaborate on this comforts I would like to start in chronological order how one thing let to another creation. At first like many technologies internets growth was in small pace till the emails became a thing. As with emails more jobs required computers and internet connection. These connectivity gave place for many economical and social activities to take. For efficiency these thing then turned in to their on special web sites/domains via Facebook, Amazon. Afterwards internet connection is used to locate the computes with gave way to Maps and taxi services. Today almost anything that requires information can be done with internet with an efficiency that was not possible 25 years from now.


Internet works as giant homogenous cloud. This is so by the servers around the world connected with wireless and cables. Once you create a web side the creator has to pay for the memory domain to the servers. These sites then can be access by other people by using ISP. An ISP will require an IP to individualise and track the actions of the people who are using the certain internet site. Turning IP to DNS creates website names that makes remembering sites much easier for people. However you have to pay separately to Domain Name Registry for one. All of the needs to build a web site could be purchased at web hosting services company. Each action causes a packets of information to transfer. On the other hand its different for the mail servers where SMTP is the delivery method. The mail servers uses POP and SMTP to deliver, get and prepare massages thats received with packets.